Add Kubernetes 1.31 release blog (#47281)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2024-08-13-Kubernetes-v1-31-Release.md

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes v1.31: TITLE'
date: 2024-08-13
slug: kubernetes-v1-31-release
author: >
  [Kubernetes v1.31 Release Team](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/blob/master/releases/release-1.31/release-team.md)
---

Announcing the release of Kubernetes v1.31: <THING>, <tagline>!

Similar to previous releases, the release of Kubernetes v1.31 introduces new
stable, beta, and alpha features. 
The consistent delivery of high-quality releases underscores the strength of our development cycle and the vibrant support from our community.
This release consists of 45 enhancements.
Of those enhancements, 11 have graduated to Stable, 22 are entering Beta, 
and 12 have graduated to Alpha.

## Release theme and logo

> <Logo image size is recommended to be no more than 2160px/>

Reviewer: Highlighting that we'll need to fill this in.

Author: updated!

This feature adds a `PersistentVolumeStatus` field which holds a timestamp of when a PersistentVolume last transitioned to a different phase.
With this feature enabled, every PersistentVolume object will have a new field `.status.lastTransitionTime`, that holds a timestamp of
when the volume last transitioned its phase. 
This change is not immediate; the new field will be populated whenever a PersistentVolume is updated and first transitions between phases (`Pending`, `Bound`, or `Released`) after upgrading to Kubernetes v1.31.
This allows you to measure time between when a PersistentVolume moves from `Pending` to `Bound`. This can be also useful for providing metrics and SLOs.

For more details about this feature please visit the [PersistentVolume documentation page](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/).

This work was done as a part of [KEP #3762](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3762) by [SIG Storage](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-storage).

## Highlights of features graduating to Beta

_This is a selection of some of the improvements that are now beta following the v1.31 release._
    
### nftables backend for kube-proxy

> The nftables backend moves to beta in v1.31, behind a newly added feature gate, `NFTablesProxyMode` (enabled by default).

Reviewer 2: (it's not "newly added"... the feature gate was there in 1.30 and 1.29, it was just disabled by default then)

Author: this has been updated, thanks!

This enhancement ensures that the PersistentVolume (PV) reclaim policy is respected even after the associated PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) is deleted, thereby preventing the leakage of volumes.

Prior to this feature, the reclaim policy linked to a PV could be disregarded under specific conditions, depending on whether the PV or PVC was deleted first. 
Consequently, the corresponding storage resource in the external infrastructure might not be removed, even if the reclaim policy was set to "Delete". 
This led to potential inconsistencies and resource leaks.

With the introduction of this feature, Kubernetes now guarantees that the "Delete" reclaim policy will be enforced, ensuring the deletion of the underlying storage object from the backend infrastructure, regardless of the deletion sequence of the PV and PVC.

This work was done as a part of [KEP #2644](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2644) and by [SIG Storage](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-storage).
    
### Bound service account token improvements

The `ServiceAccountTokenNodeBinding` feature is getting promoted to beta in 1.31. 

> To allow for a robust chain of identity verification from the requester to the projected token, the Node object reference associated with the requesting Pod is now added in the private claims embedded into each JWT returned by the TokenRequest API. 

Reviewer 3: The node associated with a pod was already added to issued JWTs via the ServiceAccountTokenPodNodeInfo gate, beta in 1.30

The ServiceAccountTokenNodeBinding feature allows requesting a token bound *only* to a node, not to a pod, which includes node information in claims in the token and validates the existence of the node when the token is used.

Author: updated

> This helps avoid replay attacks where forwarding of credentials of projected service account tokens from one actor to another. 

Reviewer 3: Replay verification is not done on tokens today, so I'm not sure I would mention this.

Author: updated!

> We can cross-reference the identity of the caller to the Node reference embedded in the JWT, which allows this verification to be rooted upon the same root of trust as the kubelet/requesting entity. For more inforamtion, read the [bound service account tokens documentation](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/#bound-service-account-tokens).

Reviewer 3: I would drop this line... it's not related to the ServiceAccountTokenNodeBinding feature that went beta in 1.31

Author: I've updated this

This work was done as part of [KEP #4193](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4193) by [SIG Auth](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-auth).

### Multiple Service CIDRs

Support for clusters with multiple Service CIDRs moves to beta in v1.31 (disabled by default).

There are multiple components in a Kubernetes cluster that consume IP addresses: Nodes, Pods and Services. 
Nodes and Pods IP ranges can be dynamically changed because depend on the infrastructure or the network plugin respectively. 

> However, Services are defined during the cluster creation as a hardcoded flag in the kube-apiserver. 

Reviewer 4: One nit, the rest lgtm

* [Metric cardinality enforcement](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2305)
* [Kube-proxy improved ingress connectivity reliability](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3836)
* [Add CDI devices to device plugin API](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4009)
* [Move cgroup v1 support into maintenance mode](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4569)
* [AppArmor support](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/24)
* [PodHealthyPolicy for PodDisruptionBudget](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3017)
* [Retriable and non-retriable Pod failures for Jobs](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3329)
* [Elastic Indexed Jobs](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3715)
* [Allow StatefulSet to control start replica ordinal numbering](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3335)
* [Random Pod selection on ReplicaSet downscaling](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2185)
    
    
### Deprecations and Removals 

As Kubernetes develops and matures, features may be deprecated, removed, or replaced with better ones for the project's overall health. 

> See the Kubernetes [deprecation and removal policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/) for more details on this process.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
See the Kubernetes [deprecation and removal policy](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/) for more details on this process.
```

Please see [Kubernetes issue #125689](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/125689) to get a better idea of timelines around the support for SHA-1 going away, when Kubernetes releases plans to adopt go1.24, and for more details on how to detect usage of SHA-1 certificates via metrics and audit logging. 

#### Deprecation of `status.nodeInfo.kubeProxyVersion` field for Nodes ([KEP 4004](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4004))

The `.status.nodeInfo.kubeProxyVersion` field of Nodes is being deprecated in Kubernetes v1.31,
and will be removed in a later release.
It's being deprecated because the value of this field wasn't (and isn't) accurate.
This field is set by the kubelet, which does not have reliable information about the kube-proxy version or whether kube-proxy is running. 

The `DisableNodeKubeProxyVersion` [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) will be set to `true` in by default in v1.31 and the kubelet will no longer attempt to set the `.status.kubeProxyVersion` field for its associated Node.

#### Removal of all in-tree integrations with cloud providers

> As highlighted in a [previous article](/blog/2024/05/20/completing-cloud-provider-migration/), the last remaining in-tree support for cloud provider integration will be removed as part of the v1.31 release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As highlighted in a [previous article](/blog/2024/05/20/completing-cloud-provider-migration/), the last remaining in-tree support for cloud provider integration has been removed as part of the v1.31 release.
```

pod(s) schedulable, and requeues them to `activeQ` or `backoffQ` only when at least one
QueueingHint returns `Queue`.

**Action required for custom scheduler plugin developers**: 
Plugins have to implement a QueueingHint for Pod/Update event if the rejection from them could be resolved by updating unscheduled Pods themselves. Example: suppose you develop a custom plugin that denies Pods that have a `schedulable=false` label. Given Pods with a `schedulable=false` label will be schedulable if the `schedulable=false` label is removed, this plugin would implement QueueingHint for Pod/Update event that returns Queue when such label changes are made in unscheduled Pods. You can find more details in the pull request [#122234](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/122234).

#### Removal of kubelet --keep-terminated-pod-volumes command line flag
The kubelet flag `--keep-terminated-pod-volumes`, which was deprecated in 2017, was removed as part of the v1.31 release.

You can find more details in the pull request [#122082](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/122082).

## Availability

> Kubernetes v1.31 is available for download on [GitHub](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.31.0) or on the [Kubernetes download page](https://kubernetes.io/releases/download/). 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Kubernetes v1.31 is available for download on [GitHub](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.31.0) or on the [Kubernetes download page](/releases/download/). 
```

---
layout: blog

> title: 'Kubernetes v1.31: TITLE'

Author: I have the title and logo, need to add it.

Reviewer: This part is good to add later on rather than earlier (revealing it early allows people watching the pull request to publish their own pre-announcement of the release).

* [Add CDI devices to device plugin API](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4009)
* [Move cgroup v1 support into maintenance mode](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4569)
* [AppArmor support](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/24)
* [PodHealthyPolicy for PodDisruptionBudget](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3017)
* [Retriable and non-retriable Pod failures for Jobs](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3329)
* [Elastic Indexed Jobs](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3715)
* [Allow StatefulSet to control start replica ordinal numbering](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3335)
* [Random Pod selection on ReplicaSet downscaling](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2185)
    
    
### Deprecations and Removals 

As Kubernetes develops and matures, features may be deprecated, removed, or replaced with better ones for the project's overall health. 
See the Kubernetes [deprecation and removal policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/) for more details on this process.
    

> #### Cgroup v1 enters the maintenance mode

Reviewer 6: Looks great, thanks.

- [**KCD Porto 2024**](https://community.cncf.io/events/details/cncf-kcd-porto-presents-kcd-porto-2024/): September 27-28, 2024 | Porto, Portugal

**October 2024**
- [**KubeDay Australia**](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubeday-australia/): October 1, 2024 | Melbourne, Australia
- [**KCD Austria 2024: October 8-10, 2024 | Wien, Austria**](https://community.cncf.io/events/details/cncf-kcd-austria-presents-kcd-austria-2024/) 
- [**KCD UK - London 2024**](https://community.cncf.io/events/details/cncf-kcd-uk-presents-kubernetes-community-days-uk-london-2024/): October 22-23, 2024 | Greater London, United Kingdom

**November 2024**
- [**KubeCon + CloudNativeCon North America 2024**](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-north-america/): November 12-15, 2024 | Salt Lake City, United States
- [**Kubernetes on EDGE Day North America**](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-north-america/co-located-events/kubernetes-on-edge-day/): November 12, 2024 | Salt Lake City, United States

> ## Upcoming release webinar

Author: need to check the event web page has been created

Author: confirmed the cncf event page is up.

Kube-proxy improved ingress connectivity reliability is stable in v1.31. 
One of the common problems with load balancers in Kubernetes is the synchronization between the different components involved to avoid traffic drop. 
This feature implements a mechanism in kube-proxy for load balancers to do connection draining for terminating Nodes exposed by services of `type: LoadBalancer` and `externalTrafficPolicy: Cluster` and establish some best practices for cloud providers and Kubernetes load balancers implementations.

To use this feature, kube-proxy needs to run as default service proxy on the cluster and the load balancer needs to support connection draining. 
There are no specific changes required for using this feature, it has been enabled by default in kube-proxy since 1.30 and been promoted to stable in 1.31.

For more details about this feature please visit the [Virtual IPs and Service Proxies documentation page](/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/#external-traffic-policy).

This work was done as part of [KEP #3836](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3836) by [SIG Network](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-network).
    

> ### Persistent Volume last phase transition time

Author: @xing-yang can you review the Persistent Volume last phase transition time section?

Author: @RomanBednar do you mind reviewing this section?

Reviewer 7: @a-mccarthy Sorry for the last response!  This looks good to me.

This feature adds a `PersistentVolumeStatus` field which holds a timestamp of when a PersistentVolume last transitioned to a different phase.
With this feature enabled, every PersistentVolume object will have a new field `.status.lastTransitionTime`, that holds a timestamp of
when the volume last transitioned its phase. 
This change is not immediate; the new field will be populated whenever a PersistentVolume is updated and first transitions between phases (`Pending`, `Bound`, or `Released`) after upgrading to Kubernetes v1.31.
This allows you to measure time between when a PersistentVolume moves from `Pending` to `Bound`. This can be also useful for providing metrics and SLOs.

For more details about this feature please visit the [PersistentVolume documentation page](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/).

This work was done as a part of [KEP #3762](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3762) by [SIG Storage](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-storage).

## Highlights of features graduating to Beta

_This is a selection of some of the improvements that are now beta following the v1.31 release._
    

> ### nftables backend for kube-proxy

Author: @danwinship can you review this section?

Author: @danwinship I think i've addressed your comments below. can you review again? thansk!

The Kubernetes project intends to update kube-proxy on Linux so that it uses `nftables`,

> not `iptables`, as the default implementation. The nftables backend moves to beta in v1.31,

Reviewer 2: Officially, this is not true; I, personally, intend to make nftables the default at some point, but Kubernetes as a project has not yet agreed to that plan. (KEP-3866 is only about adding the nftables mode _as an option_, and explicitly states that a separate KEP—which does not yet exist—would be needed to change the _default_.)

Author: I've update the content here, please take another look

> behind a newly added feature gate, `NFTablesProxyMode` (disabled by default).

Reviewer 2: it's enabled by default in 1.31... did you see something somewhere that says otherwise?

Author: I've update the content here, please take another look

In this mode, kube-proxy configures packet forwarding rules using the nftables API of the kernel netfilter subsystem. 

> For each endpoint, it installs nftables rules which, by default, select a backend Pod at random.

Reviewer 2: OK, so this was copied from the official docs, but I had the constraint there that I had to assume people might not know what kube-proxy does at all and also I couldn't describe it in terms of the iptables mode.

But in the context of release notes, it seems much more reasonable to just say "it works basically the same as the iptables mode, except using nftables instead of iptables", rather than trying to explain the entire concept of service proxying to people who almost certainly already understand it.

Maybe just delete this paragraph since the next one pretty much covers that?

Author: I've update the content here, please take another look

The nftables API is the successor to the iptables API and is designed to provide better performance and scalability than iptables. 
The `nftables` proxy mode is able to process changes to service endpoints faster and more efficiently than the `iptables` mode, and is also able to more efficiently process packets in the kernel (though this only
becomes noticeable in clusters with tens of thousands of services).

As of Kubernetes v1.31, the `nftables` mode is still relatively new, and may not be compatible with all network plugins; consult the documentation for your network plugin. 
This proxy mode is only available on Linux nodes, and requires kernel 5.13 or later.

> See the full [migration guide](/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/#proxy-mode-nftables) for more details. 

Reviewer 2: `#migrating-from-iptables-mode-to-nftables` may be a better anchor there? (It's not in the existing docs, but it will be there as of 1.31.)

Also, mention at least a little bit about "some features, especially around NodePort services, are not implemented exactly the same in nftables mode as they are in iptables mode, so check the migration docs to see if you need to override the default configuration".

Author: updated

This work was done as part of [KEP #3866](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3866) by [SIG Network](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-network).

> ### Changes to reclaim policy for PersistentVolumes

Author: @xing-yang can you review the Changes to reclaim policy for PersistentVolumes section?

Author: @deepakkinni can you review this section if you have a minute?

Reviewer 8: looks fine to me.

Reviewer 7: Looks good to me as well.

The Always Honor PersistentVolume Reclaim Policy feature has advanced to beta in Kubernetes v1.31. 
This enhancement ensures that the PersistentVolume (PV) reclaim policy is respected even after the associated PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) is deleted, thereby preventing the leakage of volumes.

Prior to this feature, the reclaim policy linked to a PV could be disregarded under specific conditions, depending on whether the PV or PVC was deleted first. 
Consequently, the corresponding storage resource in the external infrastructure might not be removed, even if the reclaim policy was set to "Delete". 
This led to potential inconsistencies and resource leaks.

With the introduction of this feature, Kubernetes now guarantees that the "Delete" reclaim policy will be enforced, ensuring the deletion of the underlying storage object from the backend infrastructure, regardless of the deletion sequence of the PV and PVC.

This work was done as a part of [KEP #2644](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2644) and by [SIG Storage](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-storage).
    

> ### Bound service account token improvements

Author: moving conversation here, https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/47281#discussion_r1703975446

@ritazh and @enj I've tried to update the content here based on the comments in the [slack thread](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C0EN96KUY/p1722015619684019). Can you review? thanks!

Author: @liggitt do you have time to review this section?

Author: @liggitt thank you for the review. I've updated this section based on your comments.

Reviewer 3: this section lgtm (aside from the nits @katcosgrove already mentioned)

### Traffic distribution for Services

Traffic distribution for Services moves to beta in v1.31 and is enabled by default. 

After several iterations on finding the best user experience and traffic engineering capabilities for Services networking, the SIG Networking implemented the `trafficDistribution` field in the Service specification, that serves as a guideline for the underlying implementation to consider while making routing decisions.
It supersedes the functionality formerly provided by the `service.kubernetes.io/topology-mode` annotation and its precursor `topologyKeys` field (which has been deprecated since Kubernetes 1.21).

For more details about this feature please read the
[1.30 Release Blog](/blog/2024/04/17/kubernetes-v1-30-release/#traffic-distribution-for-services-sig-network-https-github-com-kubernetes-community-tree-master-sig-network)
or visit the [Service](/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#traffic-distribution) documentation page.

This work was done as part of [KEP #4444](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4444) by [SIG Network](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-network).

> ### Kubernetes VolumeAttributesClass ModifyVolume

Author: @xing-yang can you review the Kubernetes VolumeAttributesClass ModifyVolume section?

Author: @mattcary do you have a minute to review this section?

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes v1.31: Elli'
date: 2024-08-13
slug: kubernetes-v1-31-release
author: >
  [Kubernetes v1.31 Release Team](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/blob/master/releases/release-1.31/release-team.md)
---

> 

Reviewer 9: Editors: Matteo Bianchi, Yigit Demirbas, Abigail McCarthy, Natali Vlatko, Edith Puclla, Rashan Smith

Maybe we can add this line like in the 1.30 blog? Just noticed the difference while looking at the draft

Author: added

Announcing the release of Kubernetes v1.31: Elli!

Similar to previous releases, the release of Kubernetes v1.31 introduces new
stable, beta, and alpha features. 
The consistent delivery of high-quality releases underscores the strength of our development cycle and the vibrant support from our community.
This release consists of 45 enhancements.
Of those enhancements, 11 have graduated to Stable, 22 are entering Beta, 
and 12 have graduated to Alpha.

## Release theme and logo

> {{< figure src="/images/blog/2024-08-13-kubernetes-1.31-release/k8s-1.31.png" alt="Kubernetes v1.31 Elle logo" class="release-logo" >}}

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
{{< figure src="/images/blog/2024-08-13-kubernetes-1.31-release/k8s-1.31.png" alt="Kubernetes v1.31 Elli logo" class="release-logo" >}}
```

These operations were never supported natively and were performed via complex and delicate maintenance operations, often causing downtime on their clusters. This new feature allows users and cluster admins to dynamically modify Service CIDR ranges with zero downtime.

For more details about this feature please visit the
[Virtual IPs and Service Proxies](/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/#ip-address-objects) documentation page.

This work was done as part of [KEP #1880](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1880) by [SIG Network](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-network).

### Traffic distribution for Services

Traffic distribution for Services moves to beta in v1.31 and is enabled by default. 

After several iterations on finding the best user experience and traffic engineering capabilities for Services networking, the SIG Networking implemented the `trafficDistribution` field in the Service specification, that serves as a guideline for the underlying implementation to consider while making routing decisions.

> It supersedes the functionality formerly provided by the `service.kubernetes.io/topology-mode` annotation and its precursor `topologyKeys` field (which has been deprecated since Kubernetes 1.21).

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
```

This one line in itself (without additional context about deprecations etc) may end up confusing people about: "Does service.kubernetes.io/topology-mode no longer work?" etc. Let's just include the first sentence? The link for the detailed docs (which you have already included) should help clarify all the other details.

Besides this, LGTM

Author: thanks for the suggestion, @gauravkghildiyal, i've updated the content to remove this sentence.

It is recommended that you should migrate away from using annotations and start using the `appArmorProfile.type` field.

To learn more read the [AppArmor tutorial](/docs/tutorials/security/apparmor/). 
This work was done as a part of [KEP #24](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/24), by [SIG Node](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-node).

### Improved ingress connectivity reliability for kube-proxy

Kube-proxy improved ingress connectivity reliability is stable in v1.31. 
One of the common problems with load balancers in Kubernetes is the synchronization between the different components involved to avoid traffic drop. 
This feature implements a mechanism in kube-proxy for load balancers to do connection draining for terminating Nodes exposed by services of `type: LoadBalancer` and `externalTrafficPolicy: Cluster` and establish some best practices for cloud providers and Kubernetes load balancers implementations.

To use this feature, kube-proxy needs to run as default service proxy on the cluster and the load balancer needs to support connection draining. 

> There are no specific changes required for using this feature, it has been enabled by default in kube-proxy since 1.30 and been promoted to stable in 1.31.

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
There are no specific changes required for using this feature, it has been enabled by default in kube-proxy since v1.30 and been promoted to stable in v1.31.
```

The Always Honor PersistentVolume Reclaim Policy feature has advanced to beta in Kubernetes v1.31. 
This enhancement ensures that the PersistentVolume (PV) reclaim policy is respected even after the associated PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) is deleted, thereby preventing the leakage of volumes.

Prior to this feature, the reclaim policy linked to a PV could be disregarded under specific conditions, depending on whether the PV or PVC was deleted first. 
Consequently, the corresponding storage resource in the external infrastructure might not be removed, even if the reclaim policy was set to "Delete". 
This led to potential inconsistencies and resource leaks.

With the introduction of this feature, Kubernetes now guarantees that the "Delete" reclaim policy will be enforced, ensuring the deletion of the underlying storage object from the backend infrastructure, regardless of the deletion sequence of the PV and PVC.

This work was done as a part of [KEP #2644](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2644) and by [SIG Storage](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-storage).
    
### Bound service account token improvements

> The `ServiceAccountTokenNodeBinding` feature is getting promoted to beta in 1.31. 

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
The `ServiceAccountTokenNodeBinding` feature is promoted to beta in v1.31. 
```

This feature allows requesting a token bound only to a node, not to a pod, which includes node information in claims in the token and validates the existence of the node when the token is used. 

> For more inforamtion, read the [bound service account tokens documentation](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/#bound-service-account-tokens).

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
For more information, read the [bound service account tokens documentation](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/#bound-service-account-tokens).
```

Nodes and Pods IP ranges can be dynamically changed because depend on the infrastructure or the network plugin respectively. 
However, Services IP ranges are defined during the cluster creation as a hardcoded flag in the kube-apiserver. 
IP exhaustion has been a problem for long lived or large clusters, as admins needed to expand, shrink or even replace entirely the assigned Service CIDR range. 
These operations were never supported natively and were performed via complex and delicate maintenance operations, often causing downtime on their clusters. This new feature allows users and cluster admins to dynamically modify Service CIDR ranges with zero downtime.

For more details about this feature please visit the
[Virtual IPs and Service Proxies](/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/#ip-address-objects) documentation page.

This work was done as part of [KEP #1880](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1880) by [SIG Network](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-network).

### Traffic distribution for Services

Traffic distribution for Services moves to beta in v1.31 and is enabled by default. 

> After several iterations on finding the best user experience and traffic engineering capabilities for Services networking, the SIG Networking implemented the `trafficDistribution` field in the Service specification, that serves as a guideline for the underlying implementation to consider while making routing decisions.

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
After several iterations on finding the best user experience and traffic engineering capabilities for Services networking, SIG Networking implemented the `trafficDistribution` field in the Service specification, which serves as a guideline for the underlying implementation to consider while making routing decisions.
```

For more details about this feature please read the
[1.30 Release Blog](/blog/2024/04/17/kubernetes-v1-30-release/#traffic-distribution-for-services-sig-network-https-github-com-kubernetes-community-tree-master-sig-network)
or visit the [Service](/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#traffic-distribution) documentation page.

This work was done as part of [KEP #4444](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4444) by [SIG Network](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-network).

### Kubernetes VolumeAttributesClass ModifyVolume

[VolumeAttributesClass](/docs/concepts/storage/volume-attributes-classes/) API is moving to beta in v1.31.
The VolumeAttributesClass provides a generic,

> Kubernetes-native API for modifying dynamically volume parameters like provisioned IO.

Reviewer 7: nit: dynamically volume -> dynamically provisioned volume

Just a nit.

Before Kubernetes v1.31, the way to know whether or not a Pod is associated with the failed device is to use the [PodResources API](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/#monitoring-device-plugin-resources). 

By enabling this feature, the field `allocatedResourcesStatus` will be added to each container status, within the `.status` for each Pod. The `allocatedResourcesStatus` field reports health information for each device assigned to the container.

This work was done as part of [KEP #4680](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4680) by [SIG Node](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-node).

### Finer-grained authorization based on selectors

This feature allows webhook authorizers and future (but not currently designed) in-tree authorizers to
allow **list** and **watch** requests, provided those requests use label and/or field selectors.
For example, it is now possible for an authorizer to express: this user cannot list all pods, but can list all pods where `.spec.nodeName` matches some specific value. Or to allow a user to watch all Secrets in a namespace
that are _not_ labelled as `confidential: true`.

> Combined with CRD field selectors (also moving to beta in 1.31), it is possible to write more secure

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
Combined with CRD field selectors (also moving to beta in v1.31), it is possible to write more secure
```

* [Random Pod selection on ReplicaSet downscaling](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2185)
    
    
### Deprecations and Removals 

As Kubernetes develops and matures, features may be deprecated, removed, or replaced with better ones for the project's overall health. 
See the Kubernetes [deprecation and removal policy](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/) for more details on this process.
    
#### Cgroup v1 enters the maintenance mode

As Kubernetes continues to evolve and adapt to the changing landscape of container orchestration, the community has decided to move cgroup v1 support into maintenance mode in v1.31.
This shift aligns with the broader industry's move towards [cgroup v2](/docs/concepts/architecture/cgroups/), offering improved functionality, scalability, and a more consistent interface. 
Kubernetes maintance mode means that no new features will be added to cgroup v1 support. 
Critical security fixes will still be provided, however, bug-fixing is now best-effort, meaning major bugs may be fixed if feasible, but some issues might remain unresolved.

> Its recommended that you start switching to use cgroup v2 as soon as possible. 

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
It is recommended that you start switching to use cgroup v2 as soon as possible. 
```

recommended approach using an external integration. Some integrations are part of the Kubernetes
project and others are third party software.

This milestone marks the completion of the externalization process for all cloud providers' integrations from the Kubernetes core ([KEP-2395](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-cloud-provider/2395-removing-in-tree-cloud-providers/README.md)), a process started with Kubernetes v1.26. 
This change helps Kubernetes to get closer to being a truly vendor-neutral platform.

For further details on the cloud provider integrations, read our [v1.29 Cloud Provider Integrations feature blog](/blog/2023/12/14/cloud-provider-integration-changes/). 
For additional context about the in-tree code removal, we invite you to check the ([v1.29 deprecation blog](/blog/2023/11/16/kubernetes-1-29-upcoming-changes/#removal-of-in-tree-integrations-with-cloud-providers-kep-2395-https-kep-k8s-io-2395)).

The latter blog also contains useful information for users who need to migrate to version v1.29 and later.

#### Removal of in-tree provider feature gates

> In Kubernetes 1.31, the following alpha feature gates `InTreePluginAWSUnregister`, `InTreePluginAzureDiskUnregister`, `InTreePluginAzureFileUnregister`, `InTreePluginGCEUnregister`, `InTreePluginOpenStackUnregister`, and `InTreePluginvSphereUnregister` have been removed. These feature gates were introduced to facilitate the testing of scenarios where in-tree volume plugins were removed from the codebase, without actually removing them. Since Kubernetes 1.30 had deprecated these in-tree volume plugins, these feature gates were redundant and no longer served a purpose. The only CSI migration gate still standing is `InTreePluginPortworxUnregister`, which will remain in alpha until the CSI migration for Portworx is completed and its in-tree volume plugin will be ready for removal.

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
In Kubernetes v1.31, the following alpha feature gates `InTreePluginAWSUnregister`, `InTreePluginAzureDiskUnregister`, `InTreePluginAzureFileUnregister`, `InTreePluginGCEUnregister`, `InTreePluginOpenStackUnregister`, and `InTreePluginvSphereUnregister` have been removed. These feature gates were introduced to facilitate the testing of scenarios where in-tree volume plugins were removed from the codebase, without actually removing them. Since Kubernetes 1.30 had deprecated these in-tree volume plugins, these feature gates were redundant and no longer served a purpose. The only CSI migration gate still standing is `InTreePluginPortworxUnregister`, which will remain in alpha until the CSI migration for Portworx is completed and its in-tree volume plugin will be ready for removal.
```

If you were using Ceph RBD volume plugin before upgrading the cluster version to v1.31, you must re-deploy your application to use the new driver.

The Ceph RBD volume plugin was formally marked as deprecated in v1.28.

#### Deprecation of non-CSI volume limit plugins in kube-scheduler

The v1.31 release will deprecate all non-CSI volume limit scheduler plugins, and will remove some
already deprected plugins from the [default plugins](/docs/reference/scheduling/config/), including:

- `AzureDiskLimits`
- `CinderLimits`
- `EBSLimits`
- `GCEPDLimits`

It's recommended that you use the `NodeVolumeLimits` plugin instead because it can handle the same functionality as the removed plugins since those volume types have been migrated to CSI. 
Please replace the deprecated plugins with the `NodeVolumeLimits` plugin if you explicitly use them in the [scheduler config](/docs/reference/scheduling/config/). 
The `AzureDiskLimits`, `CinderLimits`, `EBSLimits`, and `GCEPDLimits` plugins will be removed in a future release.

These plugins will be removed from the default scheduler plugins list as they have been deprecated since Kubernetes v1.14.

### Release notes and upgrade actions required

> Check out the full details of the Kubernetes 1.31 release in our [release notes](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.31.md).

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
Check out the full details of the Kubernetes v1.31 release in our [release notes](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.31.md).
```

**Action required for custom scheduler plugin developers**: 
Plugins have to implement a QueueingHint for Pod/Update event if the rejection from them could be resolved by updating unscheduled Pods themselves. Example: suppose you develop a custom plugin that denies Pods that have a `schedulable=false` label. Given Pods with a `schedulable=false` label will be schedulable if the `schedulable=false` label is removed, this plugin would implement QueueingHint for Pod/Update event that returns Queue when such label changes are made in unscheduled Pods. You can find more details in the pull request [#122234](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/122234).

#### Removal of kubelet --keep-terminated-pod-volumes command line flag
The kubelet flag `--keep-terminated-pod-volumes`, which was deprecated in 2017, was removed as part of the v1.31 release.

You can find more details in the pull request [#122082](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/122082).

## Availability

Kubernetes v1.31 is available for download on [GitHub](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.31.0) or on the [Kubernetes download page](/releases/download/). 

> To get started with Kubernetes, check out these [interactive tutorials](/docs/tutorials/) or run local Kubernetes clusters using [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/). You can also easily install 1.31 using [kubeadm](/docs/setup/independent/create-cluster-kubeadm/). 

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
To get started with Kubernetes, check out these [interactive tutorials](/docs/tutorials/) or run local Kubernetes clusters using [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/). You can also easily install v1.31 using [kubeadm](/docs/setup/independent/create-cluster-kubeadm/). 
```
